If the system operates on the cloud, we can set up different regions and availability zones to further improve availability [9].
Algorithms to fetch nearby businesses
In real life, companies might use existing geospatial databases such as Geohash in Redis [10] or Postgres with
PostGlS extension [11]. You are not expected to know the internals of those geospatial databases during an
interview. lts better to demonstrate your problem-solving skills and technical knowledge by explaining how the
geospatial index works, rather than to simply throw out database names.
The next step is to explore different options for fetching nearby businesses. We will list a few options, go over the
thought process, and discuss trade-offs.
Option 1: Two-dimensional search
The most intuitive but naive way to get nearby businesses is to draw a circle with the predefined radius and find al

This process can be translated into the following pseudo SQL query:
SELECT business id, latitude, longitude,
FROM business
(HERE (latitude BETWEEIN {:my lat} - radius AND {:my lat} + radius) AN
(longitude BETWEEtt {:my long} - radius AiD {:my long} + radius
This query is not efficient because we need to scan the whole table. What if we build indexes on longitude and
latitude columns? Would this improve the efficiency? The answer is not by much. The problem is that we have two
dimensional data and the dataset returned from each dimension could still be huge. For example, as shown ir
Figure 4, we can quckly retrieve dataset 1 and dataset 2,thanks to indexes on longitude and latitude columns. But
to fetch businesses within the radius, we need to perform an intersect operation on those two datasets. This is not
efficient because each dataset contains lots of data.

Longitude (degrees)
Figure 4 Intersect two datasets
The problem with the previous approach is that the database index can only improve search speed in one
dimension. S0 naturally, the follow-up question is, can we map two-dimenslonal data to one dimension? Ihe
answer is yes.
Before we dive into the answers, let's take a look at different types of indexing methods. In a broad sense, there are
two types of geospatial indexing approaches, as shown in Figure 5. The highlighted ones are the algorithms We
discuss in detail because they are commonly used in the industry.

Hash: even grid, geohash, cartesian tiers [12], etc.
J
Even though the underlying implementations of those approaches are different, the high-level idea is the same
that is, to divide the map into smaller areas and build indexes for fast search. Among those, geohash, quadtree
and Google S2 are most widely used in real-world applications. Lets take a look at them one by one.
Reminder
In a real interview, you usually don't need to explain the implementation details of indexing options. However, tis
mportant to have some basic understanding of the need for geospatial indexing, how it works at a high level and alsc
its limitations,
Option 2: Evenly divided grid
One simple approach is to evenly divide the world into smal grids (Flgure 6). Ihis way, one grid could have multiple
businesses, and each business on the map belongs to one grid.
Global Map - Geographic Coordinate System - WGS84 Datum
è
Longitude (Degrees)
Figure 6 Global map (source: [14])
This approach works to some extent, but it has one major issue: the distribution of businesses is not even. Ihere
could be lots of businesses in downtown New York, while other grids in deserts or oceans have no business at al.
By dividing the world into even grids, we produce a very uneven data distribution. Ideall, we want to use more
granular grids for dense areas and large grids in sparse areas. Another potential challenge is to find neighboring
grids of a fixed grid.
Option 3: Geohash
Geohash is better than the evenly dvided grid option. It works by reducing the two-dimensional longitude and
latitude data into a one-dimensional string of letters and digits. Geohash algorithms work by recursively dividing
the world into smaller and smaller grids with each additlonal bit. Let's go over how geohash works at a high leve.
First, divide the planet into four quadrants along with the prime meridian and equator.

Figure 7 Geohash

Latitude range [-90, 0] is represented by G

Latitude range [0, 90] is represented by 1

Longitude range [-180, 0] is represented by 0

Longitude range [0, 180] is represented by 1
Second, divide each grid into four smaller grids. Each grid can be represented by alternating between longitude bit
\ H
B
Repeat this subdivision untl the grid slze is within the precision desired. Geohash usually uses base32
representation [15]. Let's take a look at two examples.

Geohash of the Google headquarter (length = 6):
1901 18119 01901 19899 11011 11819 (base32 in binary) * 9q9hvu (base32)

Geohash of the Facebook headquarter (length = 6):
1901 18119 01901 19001 10999 10111 (base32 in binary) + 9q9jhr (base32)
Geohash has 12 precisions (also called levels) as shown in Table 4. The precision factor determines the size of the
grid. We are only interested in geohashes with lengths between 4 and 6. Ihis is because when itťs longer than 6, the
grid size is too small, while if it is smaller than 4, the grid size is too large (see Table 4).
Geohash length Grid width x height
1 5,009.4km x 4,992.6km (the size of the planet)
2 1.252.3km x 624,1km
3 156.5km x 156km
4 39.1km x 19.5km
5 4.9km x 4.9km
6 1.2km x 609.4m
7 152.9m x152.4m
8 38.2m yx 19m
9 4,8m x 4,8m
10 1.2m x 595cm
11 14.9cm x 14.9cm
12 3.7cm x 1.9cm
lable 4 Geohash length to grid size mapping (source: [16])
How do we choose the right precision? We want to find the minimal geohash length that covers the whole circle
drawn by the user-defined radius. Ihe corresponding relationship between the radius and the length of geohash i
shown in the table below,
Radius (Kilometers) Geohash length
0.5 km (0.31 mile) 6
1 km (0.62 mile) 5
2 km (1.24 mile) 5
5 km (3.1 mile) 4
20 km (12.42 mile) 4
Iable 5 Radius to geohash mapping
This approach works great most of the time, but there are some edge cases with how the geohash boundary is
handled that we should discuss with the interviewer,
Boundary issues
Geohashing guarantees that the longer a shared prefix is between two geohashes, the closer they are. As shown ir
i
Boundary issue 1
However, the reverse is not true: two locations can be very close but have no shared prefix at all. This is because
two close locations on either side of the equator or prime meridian belong to different halves' of the world. Fo!
example, in France, La Roche-Chalais (geohash: u000) is just 30km from Pomerol (geohash: ezz) but theil

Because of this boundary issue, a simple prefix SQL query below would fail to fetch all nearby businesse.
SELECT * FROM geohash index WHERE geohash LIKE 9q3zn%
Boundary issue 2
Another boundaryissue is that two positions can have a long shared prefix, but they belong to different geohashes